# Optimized multi-location partially replicated design

Optimized multi-location partially replicated design

## Usage

``` r
multi_location_prep(
  lines,
  nrows,
  ncols,
  l,
  planter = "serpentine",
  plotNumber,
  desired_avg,
  copies_per_entry,
  checks = NULL,
  rep_checks = NULL,
  exptName,
  locationNames,
  optim_list,
  seed,
  spread_reps = TRUE,
  data = NULL
)
```

## Arguments

- lines:

  Number of genotypes, experimental lines or treatments.

- nrows:

  Numeric vector with the number of rows field at each location.

- ncols:

  Numeric vector with the number of columns field at each location.

- l:

  Number of locations. By default `l = 1`.

- planter:

  Option for `serpentine` or `cartesian` movement. By default
  `planter = 'serpentine'`.

- plotNumber:

  Numeric vector with the starting plot number for each location. By
  default `plotNumber = 101`.

- desired_avg:

  (optional) Desired average of treatments across locations.

- copies_per_entry:

  Number of total copies per treatment.

- checks:

  Number of checks.

- rep_checks:

  Number of replications per check.

- exptName:

  (optional) Name of the experiment.

- locationNames:

  (optional) Name for each location.

- optim_list:

  (optional) A list object of class "MultiPrep"generated by
  [`do_optim()`](https://didiermurillof.github.io/FielDHub/reference/do_optim.md)
  function.

- seed:

  (optional) Real number that specifies the starting seed to obtain
  reproducible designs.

- spread_reps:

  A logical value indicating whether to maximize the spatial distance
  between replicated treatments in the field. Default is `TRUE`.

- data:

  (optional) Data frame with 2 columns: `ENTRY | NAME `. ENTRY must be
  numeric.

## Value

A list of class `FielDHub` with several elements.

- `infoDesign` is a list with information on the design parameters.

- `layoutRandom` is a matrix with the randomization layout.

- `plotNumber` is a matrix with the layout plot number.

- `binaryField` is a matrix with the binary field.

- `dataEntry` is a data frame with the data input.

- `genEntries` is a list with the entries for replicated and
  non-replicated parts.

- `fieldBook` is a data frame with field book design. This includes the
  index (Row, Column).

- `min_pairwise_distance` is a data frame with the minimum pairwise
  distance between each pair of locations.

- `reps_info` is a data frame with information on the number of
  replicated and non-replicated treatments at each location.

- `pairsDistance` is a data frame with the pairwise distances between
  each pair of treatments.

- `treatments_with_reps` is a list with the entries for the replicated
  part of the design.

- `treatments_with_no_reps` is a list with the entries for the
  non-replicated part of the design.

- `list_locs` is a list with each location list of entries.

- `allocation` is a matrix with the allocation of treatments.

- `size_locations` is a data frame with one column for each location and
  one row with the size of the location.

## References

Edmondson, R.N. Multi-level Block Designs for Comparative Experiments.
JABES 25, 500–522 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/s13253-020-00416-0

## Author

Didier Murillo \[aut\], Salvador Gezan \[aut\], Jean-Marc Montpetit
\[ctb\], Ana Heilman \[ctb\]

## Examples

``` r
# Example 1: Generates a spatially optimized multi-location p-rep design with 142 
# genotypes. The number of copies per plant available for this experiment is 9. 
# This experiment is carried out in 5 locations, and there are seven seeds available 
# for each plant to make replications.
# In this case, we add three controls (checks) with six reps each.
# With this setup, the experiment will have 142 treatments + 3 checks = 145 
# entries and the number of plots per location after the allocation process 
# will be 196. 
# The average genotype allocation will be 1.5 copies per location.
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
optim_multi_prep <- multi_location_prep(
  lines = 150,  
  l = 5, 
  copies_per_entry = 7, 
  checks = 3, 
  rep_checks = c(6,6,6),
  locationNames = c("LOC1", "LOC2", "LOC3", "LOC4", "LOC5"), 
  seed = 1234
)
designs <- optim_multi_prep$designs
field_book_loc_1 <- designs$LOC1$fieldBook
head(field_book_loc_1, 10)
} # }
```
