# Unreplicated designs using the sparse allocation approach

Unreplicated designs using the sparse allocation approach

## Usage

``` r
sparse_allocation(
  lines,
  nrows,
  ncols,
  l,
  planter = "serpentine",
  plotNumber,
  copies_per_entry,
  checks = NULL,
  exptName = NULL,
  locationNames,
  sparse_list,
  seed,
  data = NULL
)
```

## Arguments

- lines:

  Number of genotypes, experimental lines or treatments.

- nrows:

  Number of rows in the field.

- ncols:

  Number of columns in the field.

- l:

  Number of locations or sites. By default `l = 1`.

- planter:

  Option for `serpentine` or `cartesian` plot arrangement. By default
  `planter = 'serpentine'`.

- plotNumber:

  Numeric vector with the starting plot number for each location. By
  default `plotNumber = 101`.

- copies_per_entry:

  Number of copies per plant. When design is `sparse` then
  `copies_per_entry` \< `l`

- checks:

  Number of genotypes checks.

- exptName:

  (optional) Name of the experiment.

- locationNames:

  (optional) Names each location.

- sparse_list:

  (optional) A class "Sparse" object generated by
  [`do_optim()`](https://didiermurillof.github.io/FielDHub/reference/do_optim.md)
  function.

- seed:

  (optional) Real number that specifies the starting seed to obtain
  reproducible designs.

- data:

  (optional) Data frame with 2 columns: `ENTRY | NAME `. ENTRY must be
  numeric.

## Value

A list with four elements.

- `designs` is a list with each location unreplicated randomization.

- `list_locs` is a list with each location list of entries.

- `allocation` is a matrix with the allocation of treatments.

- `size_locations` is a data frame with one column for each location and
  one row with the size of the location.

## References

Edmondson, R.N. Multi-level Block Designs for Comparative Experiments.
JABES 25, 500–522 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/s13253-020-00416-0

## Author

Didier Murillo \[aut\], Salvador Gezan \[aut\], Ana Heilman \[ctb\]

## Examples

``` r
sparse <- sparse_allocation(
  lines = 120, 
  l = 4, 
  copies_per_entry = 3, 
  checks = 4, 
  locationNames = c("LOC1", "LOC2", "LOC3", "LOC4", "LOC5"), 
  seed = 1234
)
```
